README.md, before:

# freebsd-ports-dank

![dank meme pic](https://unrelentingtech.s3.dualstack.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/dankbsd.jpg?1)

Welcome!

This fork of the FreeBSD Ports Collection merges the [KDE](https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-ports-kde) and [GNOME](https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-ports-gnome) branches together with the upstream and adds more bleeding edge desktop-related patches.

## Usage

- Make sure you have an up-to-date FreeBSD 12-CURRENT kernel and base
- Clone this repo into `/usr/ports` (if it's already managed by git, add this repo as a remote, fetch and checkout)
- Build any ports you want :)

## Current status

### drm-next-kmod

The fresh kernel drivers for GPUs are available as a port now!
Forget building the whole system from the `drm-next` branch.

- `graphics/drm-next-kmod`: [patch for 32-bit Mesa compatibility](https://github.com/FreeBSDDesktop/kms-drm/pull/9) is already included as port patches in this fork. Mostly relevant for playing Wine and Linux games!

### Mesa with Vulkan

- ANV (Intel Vulkan) doesn't really work yet.
- RADV (Radeon Vulkan) with the `amdgpu` KMS/DRM driver works very well! Tested on an AMD Polaris (RX 480) GPU.

- `graphics/mesa-dri` and `graphics/mesa-libs`: [Mesa 17.2.1](https://www.mesa3d.org) with Vulkan drivers enabled [221540](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=221540) [220982](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=220982)
- `graphics/vulkan-sdk`: [Vulkan SDK](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-LoaderAndValidationLayers) (headers, ICD loader, validation layers) [222175](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222175)
- `games/vkquake`: [a Vulkan-powered Quake engine](https://github.com/Novum/vkQuake) [222182](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222182)
- `emulators/dolphin-emu`: [Dolphin Emulator](https://dolphin-emu.org) (GameCube/Wii) updated to a recent git revision (Vulkan just works, dynamically loaded)
- `emulators/rpcs3`: [RPCS3](https://rpcs3.net) PlayStation 3 Emulator (Vulkan option was already added upstream)

### Wayland

Slowly bringing in stuff from [xserver-mesa-next-udev](https://github.com/FreeBSDDesktop/freebsd-ports-graphics/tree/xserver-mesa-next-udev).

sway on KMS/DRM used to work on amdgpu, but broke very recently (kernel panic).

- `x11-toolkits/wlc`: updated to 0.0.10 (for sway)
- `x11-wm/sway`: [sway, the i3-like Wayland compositor](https://github.com/SirCmpwn/sway)
- `www/webkit2-gtk3`: Wayland option added (for GNOME Web aka Epiphany browser)
- `devel/sdl20`: Wayland option added

GTK/Qt already had Wayland options in the GNOME/KDE ports branches that were merged in.

### Xorg

- `x11-servers/xorg-server`: added `UDEV` option to support evdev devices autodetection [222609](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222609)
- `x11/xcape`: [Useful X11 keyboard utility](https://github.com/alols/xcape) [222602](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222602)

### Morrowind

YOU CAN PLAY IT AGAIN!

- `x11-toolkits/mygui-devel`: current git version doesn't have weird C++ problems anymore, see [220189](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=220189)
- `games/openmw-devel`: current git version uses the current `mygui` version 

### Misc

- `java/jamvm`: update to 2.0.0 [192305](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=192305)

## Kernel patches

- [222375](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222375) linsysfs(5): Add support for recent libdrm [LANDED!](https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd/commit/09ad0b962f3029e47b3f430948933b6fe066ccdf)
- [222504](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222504) Add support for 32-bit compatibility IOCTLs in the LinuxKPI [LANDED!](https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd/commit/10ef676c4bbe7379de1f3687444e4311a7d872e2)

## Recommended kernel config

`/usr/src/sys/amd64/conf/DESKTOP`:

```
include GENERIC-NODEBUG
ident   DESKTOP
nooptions 	XENHVM
nodevice		xenpci
device		evdev
options		EVDEV_SUPPORT
options 	KDTRACE_HOOKS
options 	VIMAGE
```

(the important part is the `EVDEV_SUPPORT`, which is still disabled by default for some reason!)

## Other FreeBSD desktop resources

- [My dotfiles](https://github.com/myfreeweb/dotfiles) (mostly the `x11` folder)
- [Building the awesome Alacritty terminal emulator on -CURRENT](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues/618#issuecomment-331983715) (also relevant for other Rust applications)
- [A FreeBSD 11 Desktop How-to](https://cooltrainer.org/a-freebsd-desktop-howto/), not up to date with modern GPU stuff but very good for general desktop setup (printing, networking, etc.)
- [FreeBSD on the ThinkPad X240](https://unrelenting.technology/articles/freebsd-on-the-thinkpad-x240), my post that's mostly updated but still contains old stuff

## Other resources

- [1.5 Hour Spicy SUPER EUROBEAT Mix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ftCIfHwqtg)

Commit message:

New port: www/firefox-beta

README.md, after:

# freebsd-ports-dank

![dank meme pic](https://unrelentingtech.s3.dualstack.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/dankbsd.jpg?1)

Welcome!

This fork of the FreeBSD Ports Collection merges the [KDE](https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-ports-kde) and [GNOME](https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-ports-gnome) branches together with the upstream and adds more bleeding edge desktop-related patches.

## Usage

- Make sure you have an up-to-date FreeBSD 12-CURRENT kernel and base
- Clone this repo into `/usr/ports` (if it's already managed by git, add this repo as a remote, fetch and checkout)
- Build any ports you want :)

## Current status

### drm-next-kmod

The fresh kernel drivers for GPUs are available as a port now!
Forget building the whole system from the `drm-next` branch.

- `graphics/drm-next-kmod`: [patch for 32-bit Mesa compatibility](https://github.com/FreeBSDDesktop/kms-drm/pull/9) is already included as port patches in this fork. Mostly relevant for playing Wine and Linux games!

### Mesa with Vulkan

- ANV (Intel Vulkan) doesn't really work yet.
- RADV (Radeon Vulkan) with the `amdgpu` KMS/DRM driver works very well! Tested on an AMD Polaris (RX 480) GPU.

- `graphics/mesa-dri` and `graphics/mesa-libs`: [Mesa 17.2.1](https://www.mesa3d.org) with Vulkan drivers enabled [221540](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=221540) [220982](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=220982)
- `graphics/vulkan-sdk`: [Vulkan SDK](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-LoaderAndValidationLayers) (headers, ICD loader, validation layers) [222175](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222175)
- `games/vkquake`: [a Vulkan-powered Quake engine](https://github.com/Novum/vkQuake) [222182](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222182)
- `emulators/dolphin-emu`: [Dolphin Emulator](https://dolphin-emu.org) (GameCube/Wii) updated to a recent git revision (Vulkan just works, dynamically loaded)
- `emulators/rpcs3`: [RPCS3](https://rpcs3.net) PlayStation 3 Emulator (Vulkan option was already added upstream)

### Wayland

Slowly bringing in stuff from [xserver-mesa-next-udev](https://github.com/FreeBSDDesktop/freebsd-ports-graphics/tree/xserver-mesa-next-udev).

sway on KMS/DRM used to work on amdgpu, but broke very recently (kernel panic).

- `x11-toolkits/wlc`: updated to 0.0.10 (for sway)
- `x11-wm/sway`: [sway, the i3-like Wayland compositor](https://github.com/SirCmpwn/sway)
- `www/webkit2-gtk3`: Wayland option added (for GNOME Web aka Epiphany browser)
- `devel/sdl20`: Wayland option added

GTK/Qt already had Wayland options in the GNOME/KDE ports branches that were merged in.

### Xorg

- `x11-servers/xorg-server`: added `UDEV` option to support evdev devices autodetection [222609](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222609)
- `x11/xcape`: [Useful X11 keyboard utility](https://github.com/alols/xcape) [222602](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222602)

### Firefox

- `www/firefox-beta`: added the beta port. It's 57! As always, don't forget `layers.acceleration.force-enabled` in `about:config`.

### Morrowind

YOU CAN PLAY IT AGAIN!

- `x11-toolkits/mygui-devel`: current git version doesn't have weird C++ problems anymore, see [220189](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=220189)
- `games/openmw-devel`: current git version uses the current `mygui` version 

### Misc

- `java/jamvm`: update to 2.0.0 [192305](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=192305)

## Kernel patches

- [222375](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222375) linsysfs(5): Add support for recent libdrm [LANDED!](https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd/commit/09ad0b962f3029e47b3f430948933b6fe066ccdf)
- [222504](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222504) Add support for 32-bit compatibility IOCTLs in the LinuxKPI [LANDED!](https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd/commit/10ef676c4bbe7379de1f3687444e4311a7d872e2)

## Recommended kernel config

`/usr/src/sys/amd64/conf/DESKTOP`:

```
include GENERIC-NODEBUG
ident   DESKTOP
nooptions 	XENHVM
nodevice		xenpci
device		evdev
options		EVDEV_SUPPORT
options 	KDTRACE_HOOKS
options 	VIMAGE
```

(the important part is the `EVDEV_SUPPORT`, which is still disabled by default for some reason!)

## Other FreeBSD desktop resources

- [My dotfiles](https://github.com/myfreeweb/dotfiles) (mostly the `x11` folder)
- [Building the awesome Alacritty terminal emulator on -CURRENT](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues/618#issuecomment-331983715) (also relevant for other Rust applications)
- [A FreeBSD 11 Desktop How-to](https://cooltrainer.org/a-freebsd-desktop-howto/), not up to date with modern GPU stuff but very good for general desktop setup (printing, networking, etc.)
- [FreeBSD on the ThinkPad X240](https://unrelenting.technology/articles/freebsd-on-the-thinkpad-x240), my post that's mostly updated but still contains old stuff

## Other resources

- [1.5 Hour Spicy SUPER EUROBEAT Mix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ftCIfHwqtg)
